---
author:
    email: mail@petermolnar.net
    image: https://petermolnar.net/favicon.jpg
    name: Peter Molnar
    url: https://petermolnar.net
copies:
- http://web.archive.org/web/20140909055150/https://petermolnar.eu/blips/game-of-thrones-is-crippled/
published: '2014-06-09T11:00:43+00:00'
tags:
- stuff
title: Game of Thrones is crippled

---

During the past week, on every single news site I regularly visit, I've
come across George R. R. Martin's fundraising offer: \$20000 and you can
die in his books[^1].

The cause is good ( the money is for a wolf sanctuary ), and there are
other options to support, all of them would be fine except the highest
prize.

I was a fairly early reader of the original Game of Thrones book and it
was something new, something no one did properly before: a fantasy with
very life-like happenings and twist. I've later learned that the
original first book was such a massive success that Martin altered his
plans to continue the story five years later with book 2 and 3 for the
trilogy; instead he started writing 7 books, filling in all time. That
is how the fascinatingly boring A Feast for Crows and
nothing-is-actually-happening A Dance with Dragons born.

And now, his offering to alter the storyline that was supposed to be the
original trilogy. The story that he said he'd written parts of a decade
earlier, according to his words.

Most of the best books I've read are stories that were a whole ( more or
less ) before they were written; or at least this was what their writers
told about them. ( Just search for the reasons why only 7 Narnia books
exist, for example. ) They offer the possibility that Star Wars did: a
long, long time agoâ€¦

But not Martin. This move is clearly ruining the last remains that The
Song of Ice and Fire was ever a complete story, with a beginning and an
end, that was waiting to be told. No, it's something Martin decides.

It would have been nice to have the illusion.

[^1]: <https://www.prizeo.com/prizes/georgerrmartin/a-wolf-sanctuary-tour-and-helicopter-ride>