---
author:
    name: Colin Walker
    photo: https://colinwalker.blog/Colin%20Walker.png
    type: card
    url: https://colinwalker.blog
date: '2018-03-23T20:08:38+00:00'
source: https://colinwalker.blog/bridging-the-gap/
target: https://petermolnar.net/re-eli-20180318015703/
type: webmention

---

Eli Mellen [wrote a great
post](https://eli.li/entry.php?id=20180318015703) about how the
[\#indieweb](https://colinwalker.blog?s=%23indieweb) needs to be more
accessible to non-developers. It prompted some considered response
including [this post from Jeremy
Cherfas](https://www.jeremycherfas.net/blog/a-user-considers) in which
he points to [a response from Peter
Molnar](https://petermolnar.net/re-eli-20180318015703/). And then there
is "[An Indieweb
Podcast](https://david.shanske.com/2018/03/18/an-indieweb-podcast-episode-0/)"
from David Shanske and Chris Aldridge.

Eli linked to the [indieweb
generations](https://indieweb.org/generations) page (the suggested
adoption path) exclaiming that much of the current technology is rooted
in generations 1 & 2 (the more technical users) but needs to be
accessible to those in generations 3 & 4.

He espoused [micro.blog](https://micro.blog) as an example of pushing
things towards the later generations suggesting it's *'time to update
some of the tooling"* to bridge the gap.

Having written previously about the need for easier implementation I
didn't want to just repeat myself, or Eli, so wasn't sure how to respond
or what extra I could add.

But then two posts cemented my thoughts.

Firstly, Manton Reece (creator of micro.blog) highlighted that the much
sought after ownership of content doesn't just mean owning the server
and having direct control over the source code. Instead, it's about
*"portable URLs and data. Itâ€™s about domain names"* so that a site can
outlive any platform.

Micro.blog as a service definitely straddles generations 3 & 4 as it
works just as well with existing blogs as a blog hosted on the service
itself. But If you opt for the latter then Manton has made things
considerably simpler for you.

A CMS, webmentions, publishing by micropub, it's all built in, nothing
else required apart from a micropub client - of which the native iOS and
Mac micro.blog apps are perfectly functional and more than adequate
examples.

This is exactly what Eli alludes to when he says you can't assume that
users will care about the tech or the specs - they just want the tools.

Peter Molnar argues that *"people should care, they should be at least
be aware of what's happening when they press a publish button"* and that
*"providing the tools only is not a goal I can align with."*

I have to agree with Eli here.

People don't have any idea how Twitter and Facebook work but are willing
to throw themselves at it despite warnings. Merely a fraction of the
population has ever heard of MX records, and wouldn't know their POP3
from their IMAP, but billions still use email.

This is why ecosystems and adoption curves exist; some blaze the trails
and develop solutions so others can use them without having to.

WordPress users, for example, load plugins to get the functionality they
require with no idea of how that's actually achieved. It's taken on
faith because the creators and the standards organisations have done
their jobs.

And *that* is the generational gap

Next, Jason Kottke's linked to Dan Cohen's post "[Back to the
Blog](https://dancohen.org/2018/03/21/back-to-the-blog/)" in which he
talks about the importance of writing on one's own domain but suggests
many don't because we are social animals and social networks provide *"a
powerful sense of ambient humanity."*

I've previously described micro.blog as a social layer or glue but I
think "ambient humanity" sums it up perfectly - the feeling that
*"others are here"* as Dan puts it. This is absolutely what micro.blog
helps to achieve: that connection between people, between blogs, even if
you have set up on your own.

You don't have to be isolated.

The aim of the indieweb is that we can do our own thing, or join
something like micro.blog, and that our sites and services are portable
and interoperable because the technology is platform agnostic. For this
to happen the ecosystem needs to be mature with tooling simple enough
that anyone can plug and play, or have it built in to their platform of
choice, without needing to know how it works.

It needs to be invisible.