---
author:
    email: mail@petermolnar.net
    image: https://petermolnar.net/favicon.jpg
    name: Peter Molnar
    url: https://petermolnar.net
copies:
- http://web.archive.org/web/20140922192940/https://petermolnar.eu/journal/the-ridiculous-eye-candy-war-against-everything-from-the-old-world-of-computing/
published: '2014-08-21T12:33:14+00:00'
summary: E-mail is not dying and we do not need services for the same functionality
    as XMPP.
tags:
- internet
title: The ridiculous eye-candy war against everything from the Old World
    of Computing

---

> Can't believe all the hate I see here. I agree with the Verge writers.
> Email is slowly dying. Slack looks awesome. - vicentedepierola[^1]

The Verge had recently show signs of serious weakening *(and lots of
advertisement, see this comment[^2] for a really good opinion on this)*
but the Slack is killing email[^3] had really angered me.

Our world, especially the IT world have a tendency to reinvent
everything - and I do mean everything. We're lucky that the fundamentals
of the web was put down early enough by smart people that it cannot
really be changed, otherwise we'd be in a constantly changing chaos. The
linked article is embracing a newcomer chat service (!) that it's
killing e-mail in their opinion.

This is ridiculous. If any kind of instant messaging could be able to do
that, it would have already happened by now. No one, especially
companies should not trust external services with important
communication systems. These are paid or "free" services which you know
nothing about apart from the "lickable", eye-candy interface. Deploying
a Zentyal[^4] box, and iRedMail[^5] VPS, or a Zimbra[^6] instance is not
hard at all, not even pricy. They are all Free and Open and they all
have the advantage of having your data on your box, with your rules
instead of a service that might easily give them away for some
commercial purpose.

There are good, trustworthy technologies around; email is one of them.
The whole e-mail ecosystem is extremely fault-tolerant, usually
redundant, well-known and not overcomplicated. It can be extended, with
additions like DKIM, GPG signatures, it could be encrypted, and so on.
And there are also mailing lists, where archives could be opened for
public and could save people from trying to solve issues others already
had faced. Another one is XMPP, if you want instant messaging; there is
a reason why Hangouts and Facebook are both accessible through XMPP. It
can be extended with media upload option, with voice and video gateway,
but I do admit, this last one is tricky.

Don't get me wrong, I'm interested in new technologies. I just don't
understand why the constant battle to replace the good ones with
eye-candy and why communication is becoming more important than actual
work for many.

[^1]: <http://www.theverge.com/2014/8/12/5991005/slack-is-killing-email-yes-really#252288840>

[^2]: <http://www.theverge.com/2014/7/23/5926693/the-8-most-best-weird-al-parodies-video#247232094>

[^3]: <http://www.theverge.com/2014/8/12/5991005/slack-is-killing-email-yes-really>

[^4]: <http://www.zentyal.org/>

[^5]: <http://iredmail.org>

[^6]: <http://www.zimbra.com/products/>