---
author:
    email: mail@petermolnar.net
    image: https://petermolnar.net/favicon.jpg
    name: Peter Molnar
    url: https://petermolnar.net
copies:
- http://web.archive.org/web/20160301203557/https://petermolnar.eu/avatar-3-books-of-the-legend-of-aang-vs-3-of-the-legend-of-korra/
published: '2014-08-30T20:50:18+00:00'
tags:
- TV
- opinion
title: Avatar - 3 books of The Legend of Aang vs 3 of The Legend of Korra

---

I've finished watching the season finale of Legend of Korra yesterday,
and I still have this massively unrelieved feeling which never before
happened to me.

**WARNING: SPOILERS AHEAD. You've been warned.**

I've finished watching the season finale of Legend of Korra yesterday,
and I still have this massively unrelieved feeling which never before
happened to me.

The story with Aang is going from a certain point to somewhere with a
goal. All the characters gaining and loosing during the show, there are
important moments describing the world and building background story,
with lots of surprises during this time. Zuko is a brilliant character,
so is her sister, Azula; Aang is learning a lot, we meet very unique and
special people. Skills are not just appearing; they are results of
logic, hard work, teachers, let them be humans, dragons, badgermoles.
The final battle is probably the most intense battle scene I've ever
seen ( including lots of animes ) and even if we have unanswered
questions at the end, the series is complete in three seasons with huge
lessons and a giant story.

Korra is focusing on the society aspects rather then a story from A to
B, due to it's nature of not having a setted table in the beginning. All
the questions raised ( the Equalists, the origin Good and Bad, the
original natural order ) are **important questions** but all of them are
**left opened**, more importantly **left unopposed**. The Equalists
questioned the benefits of the benders - not a single solution for the
problem was proposed. When Korra "argues" with Zaheer about chaos, as
the natural order, he tells a complete theory which for Korra replies
practically nothing apart from a pathetic "but it's wrong" type
response. If a theory is raised, it should be at least opposed, but not
left opened, because it will leave the feeling it's true and that it is
the way. My other big issue is that skills are just coming out of
nowhere. At the end of season one, suddenly, within a few minutes, Korra
can repair bending powers out of thin air. At the end of season three,
Boulin can lavabend without any former indication or thought about this.
*Lavabending, for gods sake, the whole lava-bending is an "eeer…no",
since even Avatar Roku, a full fledged, all-four-elements master was
only able to do it properly in the Avatar state, during the Winter
Solstice. Eh.*

~~Compared to the months~~ Compared to what Zuko needed to succeed in
redirecting the lightning (which he was thought by the one who watched
and learned from the ways of waterbending), this is like the D&D
levelling up in the middle of a battle. Korra can metalbend for her
first try even though she seems to be pretty far from the earthbending
skills Toph had when she unlocked them.

Legend of Korra is also incredibly dark and depressing compared to the
Aang series. Some of the prison gear, the way P'li dies, the thing that
people actually die by protagonist hands (!)… I know, times change, and
I'm not against being a bit more realistic or intense but do we really
need this in Avatar? Especially after what Aang tried to teach the
world: there is always another way.

I will not say Aang was superior in all aspects, but Korra, in my
opinion, will need to find a final target, a goal, where things are
going to. It will need to state answers or at least arguments against
brilliant but disturbing questions and and it will need to prepare the
skill-gaining of the characters much, much better.

Do not leave us with a sad, empty and "there is something wrong" feeling
at the end of a season. Even a cliffhanger is better.

<ins datetime="2014-09-01T18:47:04+00:00">
</ins>
## UPDATE

This has been brought to my attention lately; and they have a really
good point. Korra may never had walked the same path as Aang, rather one
like Akira, Elfen Lied of Rahxephon did.

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mc0W7PbobdM>

<ins datetime="2014-09-01T21:19:54+00:00">
</ins>
## UPDATE 2

I came across a review and speculation on where the Korra series is
headed to; this is a good writing, putting my concerns into words much
better I could ever done it.

<http://comicsalliance.com/legend-of-korra-review-finale-spoilers/>

<ins datetime="2014-09-12T08:51:40+00:00">
</ins>
## UPDATE 3

I re-watched ATLA with my wife, and I will say the original series is
superior and is miles ahead of Legend of Korra in all possible way.
Especially with the depth of the characters and with the taught lessons.
Just watch "Tales of Ba Sing Se" again if you have any doubts. Some said
that this is due to the lack of time: the Books of Korra have 13
episodes, while Aang had 20; true, but Aang had 3 books while Korra is
4. Do the math.